---
title:  "CMOR 3.10.0 released!!!"
published: true
permalink: /news/:year/:month/:day/:title/
tags: [news, getting_started]
---

Updates for writing CMIP7 datasets.

Features
* The `branding_suffix` of variables will be tested against the `branding_suffix` template provided by the CV. Its components `temporal_label`, `vertical_label`, `horizontal_label`, and `area_label` will have their values validated by their corresponding sections in the CV.
* `mip_era` and `data_specs_version` will be set from the CV if they are single string values.
* `frequency` can be defined in the user input JSON or by calling `cmor_set_cur_dataset_attribute` prior to creating the time axis and variable that uses the axis.
* Interval values for the frequencies are acquired from the CV if the current dataset has a frequency. If the interval value used for the time axis doesn't match the interval values of the frequency used by the variable, then CMOR will throw an error.
* `region` can be defined in the user input JSON or by calling `cmor_set_cur_dataset_attribute` prior to calling `cmor_write`.
* Table attributes `type`, `positive`, `valid_max`, `valid_min`, `ok_max_mean_abs`, and `ok_min_mean_abs` can be acquired from the header of tables and used as the default for a table's variable entries. The are overwritten by a variable entry's own version of these attributes if present.
* `variable_title` and `brand_description` can now be variable attributes if defined in the variable entry.
* `_cmip7_option` should be set in the user input JSON to enable CMIP7 global attribute checking similar to CMIP6 but without subexperiment tests. `parent_mip_era` will be set to `CMIP7` for all datasets that are written with `_cmip7_option` set.

Bugfixes
* Resolved compiler warnings when building CMOR library source.
* Resolved the issue where quantization was applied to axis, grid, and zfactor values rather than just the variable matrix. Quantization will now only be applied to the variable matrix.

Changes
* Updated quantization feature to meet [CF compliance](https://cfconventions.org/Data/cf-conventions/cf-conventions-1.12/cf-conventions.html#lossy-compression-via-quantization){:target="_blank"}.
* If a global attribute is required and has a section in the CV that is an object with key and single string value pairs, then that attribute's value will be compared against the keys in that object.

Closed Issues
* [Numerous warnings when compiling CMOR (#602)](https://github.com/PCMDI/cmor/issues/602){:target="_blank"}
* [CMIP7 requirements: "branded variable" and new mip_table specification (#762)](https://github.com/PCMDI/cmor/issues/762){:target="_blank"}
* [CF quantization/bitgrooming variable attributes required (#765)](https://github.com/PCMDI/cmor/issues/765){:target="_blank"}
* [Handle variables that have a branding suffix (#779)](https://github.com/PCMDI/cmor/issues/779){:target="_blank"}

[GitHub](https://github.com/PCMDI/cmor/releases/tag/3.10.0){:target="_blank"}
